.TH AIHELP 1 "March 2026" "aihelp 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
aihelp \- LM Studio + MCP CLI helper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aihelp
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] <QUESTION...>
.br
.B aihelp --list-models
.br
.B aihelp --list-flags
.br
.B aihelp --setup
.br
.B aihelp --model <ID>
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBaihelp\fR is a cross-platform Rust CLI that sends a natural-language question to an
OpenAI-compatible LM Studio endpoint, optionally enriched by piped stdin context.
It can also expose configured MCP servers as model-callable tools.
.PP
Streaming is enabled by default.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --endpoint <URL>
Override LM Studio base URL.
.TP
.B --api-key <KEY>
Optional API key for Authorization header.
.TP
.B --model <ID>
Use model ID for this run and persist it as the default.
When provided without a question, validates and persists model then exits.
.TP
.B --stream
Enable streaming output (default behavior).
.TP
.B --no-stream
Disable streaming for this run.
.TP
.B --max-stdin-bytes <N>
Maximum stdin bytes to include as context.
.TP
.B --timeout-secs <N>
HTTP timeout in seconds.
.TP
.B --json
Emit JSON output (or NDJSON when streaming).
.TP
.B --quiet
Reduce stderr diagnostics.
.TP
.B --print-model
Print selected model to stderr.
.TP
.B --dry-run
Print request payload(s) without sending API calls.
.TP
.B --setup
Run interactive first-run setup wizard.
.TP
.B --list-models
List callable models from configured endpoint.
.TP
.B --list-flags
Print concise list of CLI flags and descriptions.
.TP
.B --mcp
Enable MCP tool support for this run.
.TP
.B --no-mcp
Disable MCP tool support for this run.
.TP
.B --mcp-policy <read_only|allow_list|all>
Override MCP tool allow policy.
.TP
.B --mcp-max-tool-calls <N>
Max total MCP virtual tool calls in agent loop.
.TP
.B --mcp-max-round-trips <N>
Max LLM round trips in MCP loop.
.SH FIRST-RUN SETUP
If config is missing and terminal is interactive, aihelp runs setup and asks whether
MCP should be enabled by default. It then prints one-time override guidance:
\fB--mcp\fR and \fB--no-mcp\fR.
.PP
If non-interactive (or \fBAIHELP_NONINTERACTIVE=1\fR), no prompt is shown and MCP
defaults to disabled.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
aihelp "Hello can you hear me?"
ls | aihelp "what is in this directory?"
cat script.sh | aihelp "what does this script do?"
aihelp --mcp "find the right tool to search my docs for X, then summarize"
aihelp --model openai/gpt-oss-20b
aihelp --list-models
.fi
.SH CONFIG
Default config file:
.IP \(bu 2
Linux: ~/.config/aihelp/config.toml
.IP \(bu 2
macOS: ~/Library/Application Support/aihelp/config.toml
.IP \(bu 2
Windows: %APPDATA%\\aihelp\\config.toml
.PP
Override config directory with \fBAIHELP_CONFIG_DIR\fR.
.SH SAFETY
Aihelp does not execute local shell commands or modify local files.
MCP defaults to \fBread_only\fR policy and blocks write/exec-like tools unless policy is loosened.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B non-zero
Failure (model missing, endpoint unreachable, invalid config, tool-loop limits, or other runtime error).
.SH SEE ALSO
Project README: https://github.com/jalsarraf0/aihelp
